##[1.7](http://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/full-text/book/book-Z-H-10.html#%_thm_1.7)

The `(sqrt x)` procedure definition:

	(define (sqrt-iter guess x)
	  (if (good-enough? guess x)
	      guess
	      (sqrt-iter (improve guess x)
	                 x)))
	
	(define (improve guess x)
	  (average guess (/ x guess)))
	
	(define (good-enough? guess x)
	  (< (abs (- (square guess) x)) 0.001))
	
	(define (sqrt x)
	  (sqrt-iter 1.0 x))

	(define (average x y)
	  (/ (+ x y) 2))
	
	(define (square x)
	  (* x x))

Rephrasing of the statements to explain:

1. `good-enough?` is not very effective for finding the square roots of very small numbers
2. Arithmetic operations in real computers are bound by limited precision. The current test is inadequate for very large numbers.

### Explaining Statement No.1

    (sqrt 0.0081) 

_0.09056014247879707_

    (square (sqrt 0.0081))
 
_0.008201139405780026_

`0.0081` has a single digit past the given tolerance. Even though the result is incorrect, the test still determines it good enough. This is caused by the absolute tolerance of `0.001`, where the squared result is within `0.001` of the value of `x`, even though the squared result exceeds the actual value of `x`.

### Explaining Statement No.2

    (sqrt 30000000000)

_173205.08075688774_

    (square (sqrt 30000000000))

_30000000000.000004_

As `(improve guess x)` works on improving the radicand of a very large number, the difference between the improvements (and the improved radicand from the `good-enough?` tolerance), will approach zero. As a result of the computer's limited precision, this dwindling difference cannot be adequately represented by the interpreter.

At some point, the tolerance will be satisfied while there is still some significant value smaller than the tolerance. The `good-enough?` test will pass despite this excessive value and the squared result will exceed the value of `x`, as shown above. 

###An Alternative `good-enough?` Test

An alternative `good-enough?`: change the tolerance from an absolute value to a relative value. Define this relative value as a very small fraction of the current guess. A guess is good enough when the distance between it and the previous guess is less than this relative value.

Here's the improved test, which involves editing `(sqrt-iter)`:

	(define (sqrt-iter guess x lastguess)
	  (if (steptest guess lastguess) 
	      guess 
	      (sqrt-iter (improve guess x) x guess)))
	
	(define (steptest x y)
	  (< (abs (- y x ) ) (/ x 1000 ) ))
	
	(define (sqrt x)
	  (sqrt-iter 1.0 x x))

The initial `(sqrt x)` call needed to include a third parameter for the new `lastguess` formal argument in `(sqrt-iter guess x lastguess)`.

Here are the results of the same expressions from earlier:

    (sqrt 0.0081) 

_0.09000000001667166_

    (square (sqrt 0.0081))
 
_0.0081000000030009_

The relative tolerance value is set to 0.1% of the current guess, which, for a guess like `0.09000000001667166` is a smaller value than the previous test tolerance. As a result, the relative test produces a much more accurate radicand than the original `good-enough?` test.

	(sqrt 30000000000)

_173205.08076742652_

    (square (sqrt 30000000000))

_30000000003.650745_

As the size of the current guess increases, however, the relative tolerance value winds up being less accurate than the original tolerance. 0.1% of `173205.08076742652` means that a passable guess can be reached within roughly `173` units, which is much less accurate in producing a radicand than the original, absolute tolerance value of `good-enough?`.

This alternative end test is **improved for very small numbers, but produces less accurate radicands for very large numbers**.

--- 

Code tested with [repl.it](http://repl.it), [MIT/GNU Scheme](http://www.gnu.org/software/mit-scheme/), and node.js